Espresso Screenshot Capture (#1447)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/mobile-apps/automated-testing/espresso-xcuitest/espresso-capture.md

---
id: espresso-capture
title: Espresso Screenshot Capture
sidebar_label: Espresso Screenshot Capture
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

The Espresso Screenshot Capture functionality allows you to take screenshots of errors to support the visual verification of your debugging process. These screenshots also help to identify any errors or bugs within your application.

> ## Capturing Screenshots

Reviewer: Just a check-check-double-check (and maybe @kristofmuhi can confirm) but does this work for RDC only or also Emulators?
If it only works for RDC we should
- make this clearer in the docs
- only mention the RDC endpoints and remove the VDC endpoints

If it works on both we should also make that clearer 😄

Author: Corrected.

> To take screenshots during an Espresso test run, follow the steps below. Make sure to handle exceptions in your test code to ensure a proper test run. This feature is supported on Android 4.3 and above.

Reviewer: We don't have 4.3 anywhere, not Emulators and not for RDC. Emulators is 5.1 and RDC is 7.0

Author: Corrected.

### To capture screenshots:

> 1. Add the utility class to your project. See our Java example on [GitHub](https://github.com/saucelabs/my-demo-app-android/blob/2daaab68f6b75dcd78533dda7ac1715eec070f99/app/src/androidTest/java/com/saucelabs/mydemoapp/android/screenshot/SauceLabsCustomScreenshot.java).

Reviewer: Can we make the life of the users easier by:
- showing the code here, this is an extra click and not easy to copy
- add a Kotlin example

Author: Consulted the case with @kristofmuhi . Kotlin is not mandatory for the first release and it is not a blocker for this MR.

> To take screenshots during an Espresso test run, Sauce Labs provides the code you can add to your Espresso tests. See our [sample app repository](https://github.com/saucelabs/my-demo-app-android/blob/1d2d85aad21bc76878d6aa4d77aefd889b59d3c9/app/src/androidTest/java/com/saucelabs/mydemoapp/android/screenshot/SauceLabsCustomScreenshot.java) and copy the utility class into your project. Make sure to handle exceptions in your test code to ensure a proper test run. This feature is supported on Android 4.3 and above.

Reviewer 2: Since the sample app is linked in the steps, it could be removed from the description.
```suggestion
To take screenshots during an Espresso test run, follow the steps below. Make sure to handle exceptions in your test code to ensure a proper test run. This feature is supported on Android 4.3 and above.
```

> 2. Add the following code to your Espresso test scripts. See our demo app example on [GitHub](https://github.com/saucelabs/my-demo-app-android/blob/2daaab68f6b75dcd78533dda7ac1715eec070f99/app/src/androidTest/java/com/saucelabs/mydemoapp/android/view/activities/LoginTest.java).

Reviewer: Can we show a code example on how to use this a Java and Kotlin test, this is extra clicks for users and also they need to search for how to implement this

Something like

```java
// Import the class at the top of your test file
import com.saucelabs.mydemoapp.android.screenshot.SauceLabsCustomScreenshot;

// To take a screenshot use this method inside of your test 
SauceLabsCustomScreenshot.capture("before_login_input");
```

Author: Corrected.

> 1. Add the following class to your project. (See our Java an example [here](https://github.com/saucelabs/my-demo-app-android/blob/2daaab68f6b75dcd78533dda7ac1715eec070f99/app/src/androidTest/java/com/saucelabs/mydemoapp/android/screenshot/SauceLabsCustomScreenshot.java)).

Reviewer 2: Is there a specific code sample we can provide for the first step? If not, the first step should be changed to:

```suggestion
1. Add the utility class to your project. See our Java example on [GitHub](https://github.com/saucelabs/my-demo-app-android/blob/2daaab68f6b75dcd78533dda7ac1715eec070f99/app/src/androidTest/java/com/saucelabs/mydemoapp/android/screenshot/SauceLabsCustomScreenshot.java).
```

> 2. Modify your test scripts to capture screenshots. To take screenshots during an Espresso test run, Sauce Labs provides the code you will find below to add to your Espresso tests. (See our demo app example [here](https://github.com/saucelabs/my-demo-app-android/blob/2daaab68f6b75dcd78533dda7ac1715eec070f99/app/src/androidTest/java/com/saucelabs/mydemoapp/android/view/activities/LoginTest.java)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Add the following code to your Espresso tests. See our demo app example on [GitHub](https://github.com/saucelabs/my-demo-app-android/blob/2daaab68f6b75dcd78533dda7ac1715eec070f99/app/src/androidTest/java/com/saucelabs/mydemoapp/android/view/activities/LoginTest.java).
```

   
```bash
SauceLabsCustomScreenshot.capture("my-screenshot");
```

3.  Run your test on [Sauce Labs Real Devices](https://docs.saucelabs.com/mobile-apps/automated-testing/).

4. After the test has run successfully, on your **Test Cases** page, click the **Download Screenshots** tab to download a zip file with all the screenshots for each test case as shown below:
<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/live-testing/rdc-espresso-capture.png')} alt="Mobile app settings navigation" width="800"/>
   

You can also use the API to fetch captured screenshots. To fetch the screenshots through your CLI, use [Get All Screenshots](https://docs.saucelabs.com/dev/api/jobs/#get-all-screenshots) and [List Job Assets](https://docs.saucelabs.com/dev/api/jobs/#list-job-assets) endpoints (you may also use the [RDC endpoints](https://docs.saucelabs.com/dev/api/rdc/#get-a-specific-real-device-job) directly). It will return a zip file of all screenshots captured during the session.
   

## Limitations

:::note 
* The screenshots cannot exceed more than 200 MB in size.

> * You cannot change the filename of the screenshot. The code we provide allows you to supply the capture method with a string, but currently the string is ignored. We use a counter for the screenshot name. 

Reviewer 3: add "This is a known bug" to the end of the sentence

---
id: espresso-capture
title: Espresso Screenshot Capture
sidebar_label: Espresso Screenshot Capture
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

> The Espresso Screenshot Capture functionality allows you to easily take a snapshot of the error as a part of debugging process. These screenshots also help in in identifying any errors or bugs within your application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Espresso Screenshot Capture functionality allows you to easily take a snapshot of the error as to support with visual verifications or your debugging process. These screenshots also help in identifying any errors or bugs within your application.
```

## What You'll Need

* A Sauce Labs account ([Log in](https://accounts.saucelabs.com/am/XUI/#login/) or sign up for a [free trial license](https://saucelabs.com/sign-up))

> * A native Android, iOS, or iPadOS mobile app

Reviewer 3: do we need to add this in every page? It's only for Android so please remove iOS and iPadOS

## Capturing Screenshots

> To take screenshots during an Espresso test run, add the code below to your Espresso test run.

Author: ```suggestion
To take screenshots during an Espresso test run, Sauce Labs provides the code you can add to your Espresso tests:
```

> To take screenshots during an Espresso test run, Sauce Labs provides the code you will find below to add to your Espresso tests. 

Author: ```suggestion
To take screenshots during an Espresso test run, add the code below to your Espresso test run.
```

```bash

> SauceLabsCustomScreenshot.capture("my-screenshot");

Reviewer 3: I'd remove this as it's already stated below.

---
id: espresso-capture
title: Espresso Screenshot Capture
sidebar_label: Espresso Screenshot Capture
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

The Espresso Screenshot Capture functionality allows you to take screenshots of errors to support the visual verification of your debugging process. These screenshots also help to identify any errors or bugs within your application.

## Capturing Screenshots

To take screenshots during an Espresso test run, follow the steps below. Make sure to handle exceptions in your test code to ensure a proper test run.

### To capture screenshots:

1. Add the utility class to your project. See our Java example below:

> ```bash reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```java reference title="SauceLabsCustomScreenshot Class"
```

>   https://github.com/saucelabs/my-demo-app-android/blob/2daaab68f6b75dcd78533dda7ac1715eec070f99/app/src/androidTest/java/com/saucelabs/mydemoapp/android/screenshot/SauceLabsCustomScreenshot.java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  https://github.com/saucelabs/my-demo-app-android/blob/1.0.13-docs/app/src/androidTest/java/com/saucelabs/mydemoapp/android/screenshot/SauceLabsCustomScreenshot.java
```

  ``` 
2. Add the following code to your Espresso test scripts.
   

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```java
```

SauceLabsCustomScreenshot.capture("my-screenshot");
```

> See our demo app example below:

Reviewer: I would change this sentence to something like: "See the code below for a sample"

Author: Corrected

> ```bash reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```java reference title="Sample Espresso test script"
```

>   https://github.com/saucelabs/my-demo-app-android/blob/2daaab68f6b75dcd78533dda7ac1715eec070f99/app/src/androidTest/java/com/saucelabs/mydemoapp/android/view/activities/LoginTest.java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  https://github.com/saucelabs/my-demo-app-android/blob/2daaab68f6b75dcd78533dda7ac1715eec070f99/app/src/androidTest/java/com/saucelabs/mydemoapp/android/view/activities/LoginTest.java#L131-L165
```
